>> Jason Lengstorf: Now we wanna
actually create these nodes.
And to do that we're going to listen for
any MDX node that gets created, and
then we'll create a docs
page node out of it.
So to do that,
we're going to add another API hook, and
this one is called onCreateNode.
And this one gives us a bunch of data.
So the first thing that's gonna give
us is the node that was created.
It'll give us an object for
the actions that we can do that will
help us kinda process this node.
It will give us the ability to
load the content of a given node.
So if we wanna get it to parent or
if it had children, we could get those and
it'll give us a helper
to create a node ID.
And finally, it'll give us options.
So inside of this,
we are going to start by getting
out just the options that we need.
So we wanna use the base path in here,
because we're going to set the path for
the docs page to be, it's going to
include that base path if necessary,
cuz this is how it will actually build
the pages later, using this path.
So we're gonna pull the base path out and
we'll use the defaults.
Okay, and
then we're gonna load the parent node.
So when we get an MDX node, that MDX
node is generated off of a file node.
So the way that Gatsby works is the Gatsby
source file system creates file nodes.
And then Gatsby plugin MDX is
actually a transformer plugin.
So what it's doing is it's looking for
any file nodes.
And then it checks the type
actually using this onCreateNode
API that we're looking at right now.
And if it finds compatible types, which
in this case would be files with a mdx
extension, it will then create a child
node for the file called child MDX.
And that is what we are receiving
here is the child MDX.
So, we wanna load that file so
that we can check that name.
Remember, we set the name for
the files to Gatsby themed docs.
And that's because we only
want to create docs pages for
docs that are loaded by this theme.
We don't want to turn blogs or
anything else into docs pages.
So we're going to get the node,
which is the node.parent.
And then we wanna make sure that we
only work on MDX files that
were loaded by this thing.
And to do that we set up an if statement.
And the first thing we're gonna check is
that the actual type of this node is MDX.
And in Gatsby, the internal is just
kind of metadata about a given node,
and the node.internal.type
is going to reflect
whatever the plugin told
it the data type was.
So if it's a file,
the internal type would be file.
If it's Mdx, Mdx uses this capital
M lowercase dx as its file type.
We're gonna be using docs
page as our file type.
So we can just check and say, hey,
I only wanna work on Mdx files or
Mdx nodes, so
if we don't have any bail out.
And then the other thing that I wanna
check is if the parent source instance
name is not actually Gatsby theme docs.
And again, I should have made this not.
So what we're doing is we're
doing an early return.
So what we’re saying is,
if the node type is not Mdx, or
the source instance name of
the file gatsby-theme-docs.
That source instance name comes from here.
So whatever we set as the name
in Gatsby source file system,
that will become the source
instance name on the file node.
So when we load that parent, the parent
is a file node, and we can check
to make sure that it was loaded by
our theme, and not some other file.
So if those things aren't true,
we're gonna bail out.
But once we get to here,
we know that our node is an Mdx
node that was loaded by our theme.
So that means we can
start to customize it.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I
wanna make sure that if we have an index
file, we wanna treat
an index index dot MDX,
the same way that we
would an index dot HTML.
And what that means is we
want it to load up at docs
Instead of docs index,
which would be the default behavior.
So we're gonna set up a page name.
And the page name that
we'll use is if the parent
name is not index,
we will use the parent.name.
And if it is index we'll leave it blank.
In that way it would just be
the content or the base path.
So if we go /docs and
have an index .Mdx there will be /docs and
that will be the URL.
And if we have an about.Mdx
it will be /docs and /about.
Because the parent.name is the file
name without an extension.
So we have our page name and
from there I'm gonna go ahead and
use the create node action and that
accepts an objects which is our new node.
So the first thing I wanna
do is create a node ID.
And the node ID can be arbitrary,
it just needs to be unique.
So what I typically do is I take
the type that we're going to use, and
then I take the existing nodes ID,
and pass that into create node ID.
And that'll create a unique hash.
So the the idea is already unique, but
then by adding our type to it,
we get a new but also unique hash.
Once I've got the ID,
I can add in the title.
And so the title is gonna
come out of the front matter.
But if that's not set,
we can just fall back to the file name.
We're gonna check the updated time and
fortunately,
Gatsby's file system will just give us
that, so we'll do parent modified time.
And that's the last time that that file
was modified, so that's nice and handy.
Then, I wanna get the path and
I'm gonna use the path module.
Make sure I've got that included up here,
I do.
So I'm gonna use path.join and I always
wanna start with a leading slash so
we'll include that in there.
Then I'm gonna use the basepath.
And then I'm gonna use the relative
directory of the parent.
And what that means is like in our docs,
we could set up /docs/react/hooks.
State management or something, and
the URL will reflect the directory
structure inside of our content path.
So that makes it a little more logical for
people who are managing content.
Whatever the folder structure
looks like in the content
will be what gets reflected on the URL and
in the hierarchy of the site.
And once you've got that
relative directory in there,
we will include the page name, whoops.
Skip to the beginning of the folder,
page name.
So this now is our only collapse out.
So we can see the whole thing.
So our path then is going to be
starting at the leading slash.
If we have a base path like /docs,
then the relative directory
to match the file hierarchy.
And then the page name which will either
be the filename or empty if its index.
So, does this make sense?
Does anybody have questions about
how this works before we move on?
>> Speaker 2: So I guess just to clarify,
the purpose of what we're doing
here is creating knows that
we can query and GraphQL.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah, so
what we're doing is we're basically
saying we define this docs page up here.
Id titled path updated.
And in onCreateNode, id title path
updated, we're creating all these files.